---Definiations---
Bio-based plastics 
/* Bio-based plastics are polymeric materials entirely or partially produced from biomass resources irrespective of their end-of-life fate or management and whether they were organically farmed. If the material is not 100% bio-based, the actual percentage has to be prefixed (e.g. “30% bio-based plastic”).
   Aubin, S. et al. (2022) “Plastics in a circular economy: Mitigating the ambiguity of widely-used terms from stakeholders consultation,” Environmental Science & Policy, 134, pp. 119–126. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsci.2022.04.011. 

Biodegradable plastics
/* Biodegradable plastics can be totally degraded by living microor-ganisms (e.g. soil microorganisms) into biomass and small non-toxic molecules such as water, carbon dioxide (CO2) and/or methane (CH4) in widespread natural environmental conditions and in a reasonable timeframe compatible with human life cycles.
   Aubin, S. et al. (2022) “Plastics in a circular economy: Mitigating the ambiguity of widely-used terms from stakeholders consultation,” Environmental Science & Policy, 134, pp. 119–126. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsci.2022.04.011. 

Bioplastics 
/* Bioplastics constitute a broad range of materials and products that are bio-based, biodegradable, or both.
   Aubin, S. et al. (2022) “Plastics in a circular economy: Mitigating the ambiguity of widely-used terms from stakeholders consultation,” Environmental Science & Policy, 134, pp. 119–126. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsci.2022.04.011. 

Plastics recycling
/* Any recovery operation by which plastic waste is reprocessed into plastics technically very close to the virgin one and enabling final products with the same original purpose and function. If the process losses significantly differ from zero, the number of possible cycles is limited and must be specified.
   Aubin, S. et al. (2022) “Plastics in a circular economy: Mitigating the ambiguity of widely-used terms from stakeholders consultation,” Environmental Science & Policy, 134, pp. 119–126. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsci.2022.04.011. 


---Bio-based bioplastic---
Bio-based PE
/* Biopolyethylene is polyethylene made out of ethanol, which becomes ethylene after a dehydration process. It can be made from various feedstocks including sugar cane, sugar beet, and wheat grain.

Bio-based PP
/* Bio-Based Polypropylene is a polymer manufactured from natural materials such as corn, sugar cane, vegetable oil, and some other biomass. The properties of bio based polypropylene are similar to synthetic polypropylene. 

Polyethylene Terephthalate (PETE or PET)
/*The most common thermoplastic resin of the polyester family, PET is the fourth-most produced synthetic plastic. Polyethylene Terephthalate has excellent chemical resistance to organic materials and water and is easily recyclable.

Polyamide/Nylon (PA)
/* Biobased polyamides are a new class of bioplastics that are derived from renewable resources such as natural fats and oils.

Polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT)
/* Polytrimethylene terephthalate is one of the most important commercial polyester. It is a semi-aromatic, semicrystalline thermoplastic that can be easily molded, thermoformed and spun into fibers. It has mechanical and thermophysical properties similar to polyethylene terephthalte (PET).


---Bio-based and biodegradable bioplastic---
Polylactic acid (PLA)
/* Polylactic acid. PLA has become a popular material due to it being economically produced from renewable resources. In 2021, PLA had the highest consumption volume of any bioplastic of the world. Yet PLA takes centuries to degrade in soil and water without determining a concrete time span. 

Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs)
/* Polyhydroxyalkanoates or PHAs are polyesters produced in nature by numerous microorganisms, including through bacterial fermentation of sugars or lipids. These plastics are biodegradable and are used in the production of bioplastics.

Polyhydroxybutyrates (PHBs)
/* Polyhydroxybutyrates are macromolecules synthesized by bacteria. They are inclusion bodies accumulated as reserve materials when the bacteria grow under different stress conditions. Because of their fast degradability under natural environmental conditions, PHBs are selected as alternatives for production of biodegradable plastics.

Polybutylene succinate (PBS)
/* Polybutylene succinate (sometimes written polytetramethylene succinate) is a thermoplastic polymer resin of the polyester family. In the beginning of the 1990s, after being forgotten for more than 40 years, these polymers received a renewed interest due to the increasing demand on biodegradable and bio-based polymers.

Poly(glycolic acid) (PGA)
/* Poly(glycolic acid) has a similar chemical structure to PLA but without the methyl side group. Given its synthesis diversity and unique properties, PGA shows great potential to substitute engineering petrochemical-based polymers for high temperature and high gas barrier packaging applications.

Starch blends
/* Starch-based bioplastics are often blended with biodegradable polyesters to produce starch/polylactic acid. They are often derived from various biomass sources, the most widely used being starch, which is a natural polymer that can be incorporated in various materials.


---Biodegradable bioplastic---
Polybutylene Adipate Yerephthalate (PBAT) 
/* PBAT is a biodegradable random copolymer. It is generally marketed as a fully biodegradable alternative to low-density polyethylene, having many similar properties including flexibility and resilience, allowing it to be used for many similar uses such as plastic bags and wraps.

Polycaprolactone (PCL)
/* Polycaprolactone (PCL) is a biodegradable polyester with a low melting point of around 60 °C. PCL has been widely used in long-term implants and controlled drug release applications. 

PBS
/* see entry in Bio-based and biodegradable bioplastic.

Polyvinyl Alcohol (PVA and PVOH)
/* Polyvinyl Alcohol is a synthetic polymer and plastic that is water soluble and biodegradable under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Mainly used in liquid laundry paxckets (LLPS).


--Conventional plastics--
Polyethylene (PE)
/* The most common plastic on earth, polyethylene can be manufactured in varying densities. Each different density of polyethylene gives the final plastic unique physical properties. As a result, polyethylene is in a wide variety of products.

  Low-Density Polyethylene (LDPE)
  /* This density of polyethylene is ductile and used to make products like shopping bags, plastic bags, clear food containers, disposable packaging, etc.
  
  Medium-Density Polyethylene (MDPE)
  /* Possessing more polymer chains and, thus, greater density, MDPE is typically in gas pipes, shrink film, carrier bags, screw closures, and more.
  
  High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE)
  /* More rigid than both LDPE and MDPE, HDPE plastic sheeting is in products such as plastic bottles, piping for water and sewer, snowboards, boats, and folding chairs.

  Ultra High Molecular Weight Polyethylene (UHMWPE)
  /* UHMWPE is not much denser than HDPE. Compared to HDPE, this polyethylene plastic much more abrasion resistant due to the extreme length of its polymer chains. Possessing high density and low friction properties, UHMWPE is in military body armor, hydraulic seals and bearings, biomaterial for hip, knee, and spine implants, and artificial ice skating rinks.

Polypropylene (PP)
/* This plastic material is a thermoplastic polymer and the world’s second-most widely produced synthetic plastic. Its widespread use and popularity are undoubted because polypropylene is one of the most flexible thermoplastics on the planet. Although PP is stronger than PE, it still retains flexibility. It will not crack under repeated stress.

Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC)
/* The third-most produced synthetic plastic polymer, PVC can be manufactured to possess rigid or flexible properties. It is well-known for its ability to blend with other materials. For example, expanded PVC sheets are a foamed polyvinyl chloride material that is ideal products like kiosks, store displays, and exhibits.

Acrylic or Polymethyl Methacrylate (PMMA)
/* Well-known for its use in optical devices and products, acrylic is a transparent thermoplastic used as a lightweight, shatter-resistant alternative to glass.

Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene (ABS)
/* Created by polymerizing styrene and acrylonitrile in the presence of polybutadiene, ABS is robust, flexible, glossy, highly processable, and impact resistant. It can be manufactured in a range of thicknesses from 200 microns to 5mm with a maximum width of 1600mm.

Polycarbonate (PC)
/* Tough, stable, and transparent, polycarbonate is an excellent engineering plastic that is as clear as glass and two hundred and fifty times stronger. Thirty times stronger than acrylic, clear polycarbonate sheets are also easily worked, molded, and thermo-formed or cold-formed.

Polystyrene (PS) 
/* Polystyrene is a synthetic polymer made from monomers of the aromatic hydrocarbon styrene. Polystyrene can be solid or foamed. General-purpose polystyrene is clear, hard, and brittle. It is an inexpensive resin per unit weight. 
