Bio-based plastics 
/* Bio-based plastics are polymeric materials entirely or partially produced from biomass resources irrespective of their end-of-life fate or management and whether they were organically farmed. If the material is not 100% bio-based, the actual percentage has to be prefixed (e.g. “30% bio-based plastic”).
   Aubin, S. et al. (2022) “Plastics in a circular economy: Mitigating the ambiguity of widely-used terms from stakeholders consultation,” Environmental Science & Policy, 134, pp. 119–126. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsci.2022.04.011. 

Biodegradable plastics
/* Biodegradable plastics can be totally degraded by living microor-ganisms (e.g. soil microorganisms) into biomass and small non-toxic molecules such as water, carbon dioxide (CO2) and/or methane (CH4) in widespread natural environmental conditions and in a reasonable timeframe compatible with human life cycles.
   Aubin, S. et al. (2022) “Plastics in a circular economy: Mitigating the ambiguity of widely-used terms from stakeholders consultation,” Environmental Science & Policy, 134, pp. 119–126. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsci.2022.04.011. 

Bioplastics 
/* Bioplastics constitute a broad range of materials and products that are bio-based, biodegradable, or both.
   Aubin, S. et al. (2022) “Plastics in a circular economy: Mitigating the ambiguity of widely-used terms from stakeholders consultation,” Environmental Science & Policy, 134, pp. 119–126. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsci.2022.04.011. 

Plastics recycling
/* Any recovery operation by which plastic waste is reprocessed into plastics technically very close to the virgin one and enabling final products with the same original purpose and function. If the process losses significantly differ from zero, the number of possible cycles is limited and must be specified.
   Aubin, S. et al. (2022) “Plastics in a circular economy: Mitigating the ambiguity of widely-used terms from stakeholders consultation,” Environmental Science & Policy, 134, pp. 119–126. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsci.2022.04.011. 


Bio-based bioplastic
Bio-based PE, PET, PA, PTT, bio-PP

Bio-based and biodegradable bioplastic
PHA, PBS, PHN, PGA, starch blends
PLA
/* Polylactic acid. PLA has become a popular material due to it being economically produced from renewable resources. In 2021, PLA had the highest consumption volume of any bioplastic of the world.


Biodegradable bioplastic
PBAT, PCL, PBS, PVOH, PVA

Conventional plastics
PS, 
Polyethylene (PE)
/* The most common plastic on earth, polyethylene can be manufactured in varying densities. Each different density of polyethylene gives the final plastic unique physical properties. As a result, polyethylene is in a wide variety of products.

  Low-Density Polyethylene (LDPE)
  /* This density of polyethylene is ductile and used to make products like shopping bags, plastic bags, clear food containers, disposable packaging, etc.
  
  Medium-Density Polyethylene (MDPE)
  /* Possessing more polymer chains and, thus, greater density, MDPE is typically in gas pipes, shrink film, carrier bags, screw closures, and more.
  
  High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE)
  /* More rigid than both LDPE and MDPE, HDPE plastic sheeting is in products such as plastic bottles, piping for water and sewer, snowboards, boats, and folding chairs.

  Ultra High Molecular Weight Polyethylene (UHMWPE)
  /* UHMWPE is not much denser than HDPE. Compared to HDPE, this polyethylene plastic much more abrasion resistant due to the extreme length of its polymer chains. Possessing high density and low friction properties, UHMWPE is in military body armor, hydraulic seals and bearings, biomaterial for hip, knee, and spine implants, and artificial ice skating rinks.

Polyethylene Terephthalate (PETE or PET)
/*The most common thermoplastic resin of the polyester family, PET is the fourth-most produced synthetic plastic. Polyethylene Terephthalate has excellent chemical resistance to organic materials and water and is easily recyclable.

Polypropylene (PP)
/* This plastic material is a thermoplastic polymer and the world’s second-most widely produced synthetic plastic. Its widespread use and popularity are undoubted because polypropylene is one of the most flexible thermoplastics on the planet. Although PP is stronger than PE, it still retains flexibility. It will not crack under repeated stress.

Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC)
/* The third-most produced synthetic plastic polymer, PVC can be manufactured to possess rigid or flexible properties. It is well-known for its ability to blend with other materials. For example, expanded PVC sheets are a foamed polyvinyl chloride material that is ideal products like kiosks, store displays, and exhibits.

----edited down to here

Acrylic or Polymethyl Methacrylate (PMMA)
/* Well-known for its use in optical devices and products, acrylic is a transparent thermoplastic used as a lightweight, shatter-resistant alternative to glass.

Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene (ABS)
/* Created by polymerizing styrene and acrylonitrile in the presence of polybutadiene, ABS is robust, flexible, glossy, highly processable, and impact resistant. It can be manufactured in a range of thicknesses from 200 microns to 5mm with a maximum width of 1600mm.


Polycarbonate (PC)
/* Tough, stable, and transparent, polycarbonate is an excellent engineering plastic that is as clear as glass and two hundred and fifty times stronger. Thirty times stronger than acrylic, clear polycarbonate sheets are also easily worked, molded, and thermo-formed or cold-formed.


