---Flexible plastic manufacturing---
Hot melt lamination. Typical products produced: Cases, cartons and trays.
Extrusion lamination
Adhesive lamination
Wax lamination. Used for sealing a foil milk cap, joins paper to foil.
Co-exclusion lamination
Metallisation. Used for foil chocolate wrapping.
Cold forming. Used for blister packs.


---Rigid plastic manufacuring---
Blown film extrusion. Typical products produced: Industry packaging (e.g. shrink film, stretch film, bag film or container liners), Consumer packaging (e.g. packaging film for frozen products, shrink film for transport packaging, food wrap film, packaging bags, or form, fill and seal packaging film), Laminating film (e.g. laminating of aluminium or paper used for packaging for example milk or coffee), Barrier film, films for the packaging of medical products, Agricultural film (e.g. greenhouse film, crop forcing film, silage film, silage stretch film).
Extrusion blow moulding. Typical products produced: Bottles and containers, Automotive fuel tanks, Venting ducts, Watering cans and Boat fenders etc.
Extrusion Profiles and Sheet: Typical products produced: Land Drainage Tubing, Animal Feeding Troughs, Cable Harness, Door Seals, Light Diffusers, Electrical Conduit and Cable Protector, Rainwater Pipes and Guttering, Facia & Soffit Sections, Curtain Track, Fridge Seals, Edge Trim, Caravan Window Surrounds, Garden Fence Posts & Decking, Blood Drip Tubes & Catheter Tubes, Dip Tubes, Gas Pipes, Water Pipes, Soil Pipes and Window, Door and Conservatory Sections.
Injection blow moulding (2-step process). Typical products produced: Plastic Bottles.
Injection blow moulding. Typical products produced: Power-tool housing, Telephone handsets, Television Cabinets, Electrical Switches, DVDs, Automotive bumpers, Automotive dash boards, Battery Casings, Syringes, Drug Inhalation Units, Disposable razors,  washing-up bowls, Wheelie bins, Crates/Recycling boxes and Bottle Lids/closures
Stretch blow moulding. Typical products produced: Carbonated and soft drink bottles, Cooking oil containers, Agrochemical containers Health and oral hygiene products and Bathroom and toiletry products.
Rotational moulding. 
Thermoforming. 
Vacuum forming. 

Source: https://www.bpf.co.uk/plastipedia/processes/Default.aspx
